---
title: Installing Symfony Drupal
layout: default
permalink: /install
---

I hope it is easy for you to install and test this project, but it will not be as easy as installing Drupal.

You cannot use install.php, but you can use drush.

{% highlight bash %}
git clone --branch 2.4 https://github.com/bangpound/symfony-drupal.git
cd symfony-drupal
composer install
{% endhighlight %}

Drupal directories are symlinked into the Symfony web directory:

    drwxr-xr-x .
    drwxr-xr-x ..
    -rw-r--r-- .htaccess
    -rw-r--r-- app.php
    -rw-r--r-- app_dev.php
    -rw-r--r-- apple-touch-icon.png
    -rw-r--r-- config.php
    -rw-r--r-- favicon.ico
    lrwxr-xr-x includes -> ../vendor/drupal/drupal/includes
    lrwxr-xr-x misc -> ../vendor/drupal/drupal/misc
    lrwxr-xr-x modules -> ../vendor/drupal/drupal/modules
    lrwxr-xr-x profiles -> ../vendor/drupal/drupal/profiles
    -rw-r--r-- robots.txt
    lrwxr-xr-x sites -> ../vendor/drupal/drupal/sites
    lrwxr-xr-x themes -> ../vendor/drupal/drupal/themes

These steps fetch and install Symfony Drupal and all the dependencies. To install Drupal, you must go into the `vendor/drupal/drupal` directory and run:

{% highlight bash %}
drush site-install --db-url=mysql://root@localhost/test
{% endhighlight %}

I had trouble with SQLite, but MySQL works fine. Substitute your desired database name, of course. See the documentation at `drush help site-install` for details about specifying your preferred options.

You will need to download and install the [Symfony module](https://github.com/bangpound/symfony-module) and install it in `vendor/drupal/drupal/sites/all/modules`. You can enable it after you log in to the Drupal site. Without the module, you will not be able to log out of Drupal.

Then you must return to the site root and start the site.

{% highlight bash %}
./app/console server:run -v
{% endhighlight %}

Good luck! [Let me know how it goes.](https://github.com/bangpound/symfony-drupal/issues)
